I began development of this project by creating the "layout.html" file that would serve as a layout for all other HTML files in the project. Using Jinja, I wrote blocks for the CSS and JavaScript files that would be linked to each HTML file using the layout because of the fact that the homepage utilizes a different CSS and JavaScript file than the other pages (more on this below). Images of Hogwarts, the Maurauders' Map, and the Harry Potter logo (for use as a favicon) were found online and downloaded; then I placed them inside of the project's directory. The favicon of the Harry Potter logo is linked to the layout, which means it would serve as the favicon for all HTML pages using the layout. The layout also includes a Jinja block for the title of the page for different HTML files using the layout. Inside the body, I decided to utilize a navigation bar styled using Bootstrap, as fundamentally I knew I would only need two links (one for the homepage and the other for the character database) along with the search bar to be included in the navigation bar. Bootstrap had very nicely styled navigation bars that did in fact include a search bar inside it as well, so I decided to use it by adding the specific class names to each element in the navigation bar. The search bar was implemented using a form, specifically using the GET method so that the user will see their search query in the url of the web application. Finally, a Jinja main block was added to essentially hold the main elements in the body for all of the HTML files that are using the layout.


Afterwards, I decided to look for a character database that contained specific information on each character from the Harry Potter series. I was able to find such a database on Kaggle, but when I downloaded the database, it was in the form of a CSV file. Operating inside of the project's directory, I used sqlite3 to essentially create a file called "characters.db" and copy the data from the CSV file into the newly made "characters.db". Now, SQL commands could be executed on the database.


The next step was designing the homepage, which is implemented in "index.html", "app.py", "homepage.css", and "homepage.js". "index.html" utilized the layout that was created above and was given a title of Homepage. Inside of the main block, I utilized a Bootstrap designed Jumbotron to essentially contain most of the content of the homepage; the jumbotron was given the "background" class, which is utilized in the CSS and JavaScript files for setting the background of the jumbotron. <h1> and <p> tags were used to essentially provide an introduction to the user and cite all of the images and the dataset that were used in the web application, and a Bootstrap styled link (it has the <a> tag, but essentially acts as a button) was written to essentially serve as the button that allows the user to access the entirety of the web application. Elements that were to appear as hidden/invisible when the user initially sees the homepage were given the "appear" class, which was utilized in the "homepage.css" and "homepage.js" files.

In "homepage.css", the background of the entire homepage is set to the image of Hogwarts and is styled to cover the entire page, not repeat in any way, and remain in the center. The background of the jumbotron is initially set to the image of the Maurauders' Map, styled to cover the entire jumbotron, remain in the center, and not repeat as well. The transition time and function of the background of the jumbotron is also set. The jumbotron is given a 20% margin on the left and right to make it appear more centralized responsively and elements with the "appear" class are initially have their visibility set to hidden. Finally, the button on the homepage that allows the user to access the entirety of the web application is styled and given some transition time when the button is hovered over.

In "homepage.js", the interactivity with the Maurauders' Map on the homepage is implemented by listening for when the button is clicked. Once it is clicked, the background image of the jumbotron is set to none and the background color of the jumbotron is set to a gray color that's a bit transparent so that the user can still see the beautiful Hogwarts background image of the homepage. The hidden elements that have the "appear" class are looped through and essentially have their visibility set to visible, making them appear. Finally, the button itself has its visibility set to hidden, as once the user accesses all of the features of the web application, there is no more need for this button.

In "app.py", the application is configured and the "characters.db" SQLite database is initialized in a variable. For the homepage/index route, the Python function simply returns the rendered template of index.html, as nothing else (such as variables) is needed for the homepage.

The reason that I decided to utilize a different CSS file specifically for the homepage is because of the interactivity with the changing backgrounds, and the fact that I wanted the Hogwarts background image to be specifically for the homepage, while the other pages have a background color that is similar to the color of the Maurauders' Map. The JavaScript file is specifically for the homepage because the other pages of the web application mainly utilize the SQL database and don't utilize JavaScript at all.


The entire character database was implemented in "database.html", "data_pages.css", and "app.py". "database.html" utilized the layout that was created above and was given the title of Character Database. Inside of the main block, Bootstrap was used to style a title in the body of the page that reads Characters. A card grid was implemented using Bootstrap, each card represented a character from the database. The cards were arranged in such a way that there were 4 cards in a row before a new row began. The characters of the database are looped through utilizing a Jinja for loop, and for each character, a Bootstrap card was implemented such that the image atop the card is an image of Hogwarts, the the card's body contains the character's name, job, and a "View" button that links to a page for that specific character (more on this below). The "View" button for each card was implemented using a form element/tag and GET method due to the fact that the Python code (in app.py) would need the specific character that the user is requesting. Thus, to provide this for the "app.py" file, a hidden input is contained within the form that contains the character's id in the database, which is then submitted when the "View" button is pressed. Finally, a footer is implemented that contains the source links of the images and dataset that was utilized in the web application.

In "data_pages.css", the background color of the pages using this CSS file (which is all pages besides the homepage) is set to a color similar to color of the Maurauders' Map; the horizontal overflow of the body is hidden to allow for a more centralized design of the card grid. The titles that are contained in the body of the page are given a bottom margin to space them a bit above the rest of the content of the pages. The jumbotron (utilized in "character.html" as described below) is given a 20% margin on the left and right to make it appear more centralized responsively. Paragraph elements are aligned to the left to make it appear more organized (this is only utilized in "character.html" as seen below). The card grid is given a left margin to make it more centered on the page, and is given a width of 100% to ensure that it is taking up the width available. The footer is given a margin on the top to make it more spaced apart from the rest of the content of the pages.

In "app.py", for the database route, which is essentially the route for when the user accesses the entire Character Database by clicking on the Character Database link in the navigation bar of the web application, the Python database function essentially initializes a variable to contain all information on all characters in the "characters.db" database using an SQL command. The function then returns a rendered template of "database.html" and a variable that is initialized to the information that was taken from the "characters.db" database above.


When the "View" button for a character's card is pressed, the user will be redirected to a new page with general information on that specific character. This feature is implemented in "character.html", "data_pages.css", and "app.py". "character.html" utilized the layout that was created above and was given the title of the name of the specific character. Inside of the main block, Bootstrap was used to style a title in the body of the page that reads the name of the specific character as well. A Bootstrap styled Jumbotron is then used to contain the data/information on the character that will be displayed. Jinja is used to display the aspects of the specific character, and these aspects are displayed using <p> tags with the Bootstrap class "lead" to essentially make the text appear nicer. Finally, a footer is implemented that contains the source links of the images and dataset that was utilized in the web application. The page is also styled using the "data_pages.css" file as described above.

In "app.py", for the view route, which is essentially the route for when the user accesses the character-specific page by clicking on the "View" button of the character's card, the Python view function essentially gets the id of the specific character from the form, as discussed above, and uses the character's id in a SQL command to gather all information on the specific character available in the "characters.db" database and place it in a variable. The function then returns a rendered template of "character.html" and a variable that is initialized to the information that was taken from the "characters.db" database above.


The search functionality of the web application is implemented in "results.html", "data_pages.css", and "app.py". "results.html" is the page that the user is directed to when they make a search using the search bar located in the navigation bar (described above). "results.html" utilized the layout that was created above and was given the title of Search Results. Inside of the main block, Bootstrap was used to style a title in the body of the page that reads Search Results as well. Similar to "database.html", a card grid was implemented using Bootstrap, each card represented a character from the database that was returned from the search query. The cards were arranged in such a way that there were 4 cards in a row before a new row began. The characters of the database that the search query returned are looped through utilizing a Jinja for loop, and for each character, a Bootstrap card was implemented such that the image atop the card is an image of Hogwarts, the the card's body contains the character's name, job, and a "View" button that links to a page for that specific character (as described above). The "View" button for each card was implemented using a form element/tag, a hidden input contained within the form that contains the character's id in the database, which is then submitted when the "View" button is pressed, and GET method; this allows the Python code to access the specific character that the user is requesting (similar to "database.html"). Finally, a footer is implemented that contains the source links of the images and dataset that was utilized in the web application.


In "app.py", for the search route, which is essentially the route for when the user searches for a character by using the search bar located in the navigation bar of the web application, the Python search function essentially gets the search query that the user inputted into the form, as discussed above, and uses the search query in a SQL command to gather all characters in the "characters.db" database whose name in some way contains the search query within it. The characters and all of their information available in the "characters.db" database are placed in a variable. The function then returns a rendered template of "results.html" and a variable that is initialized to the information that was taken from the "characters.db" database above.


requirements.txt essentially lists the required libraries for the web application, Flask and cs50.
