This web application, Hogwarts Student-Faculty Database, is intended to run on the CS50 IDE (Visual Studio Code Codespaces). When downloading the project's folder, ensure that 2 CSS, 1 JavaScript, and 3 image files are all in the "static" subfolder; all 5 HTML files are in the "templates" subfolder; and directly in the project's folder is "app.py", "characters.db", "requirements.txt", and two Markdown files. The user may also see a file directly in the project's directory named "characters.csv", which the user can ignore. Once all of the files for the web app have been loaded into the codespace, the user should then execute "cd CS50-Final-Project", where CS50-Final-Project is the name of the project's folder containing all of the files for the Hogwarts Student-Faculty Database web app. Once inside the directory for the web application, the user should then execute "flask run" and press the "Open in Browser" button that appears in the bottom right corner of the VS Code Codespaces IDE. Now the user should see the web application loaded in their browser.


When the web application loads in the user's browser, the user should initially see the homepage in which an image of the Maurauders' Map can be seen and within it, a button that says "I Solemly Swear That I Am Up To No Good". The main features of the web application (the character database and the search functionality) will not be visible on the web application until the user presses the button. For those who haven't read the Harry Potter books or have seen the movies, these words essentially provide access to the Maurauders' Map; in this case, it will provide access to the rest/entirety of the web application. Once the button is pressed, the user will see that the Maurauders' Map disappears and the homepage is then filled with an introduction welcoming the user to Hogwarts and briefly explaining how to use the web application. The user will also see a link to the character database and the search bar appear in the navigation bar at the top of the web application.


If the user presses on the "Character Database" link in the navigation bar, they will be redirected to another page in which a great amount of characters from the Harry Potter series are displayed in the form of a grid of cards (to be exact, there are 63 characters). In each card for each character, the user will be able to see a photo of Hogwarts, in addition to the name and the job of the character. In addition, each card also has a button that says "View", which will redirect the user to another page with more information on the character whose card's button was clicked (more information on this functionality below).


When the user presses on the "View" button for a character's card, the user will be redirected to a new page that essentially displays that specific character's general information. This information includes, but is not limited to, aspects of the character such as the character's Gender, Job, Hogwarts House, Wand Type, Patronus, Loyalties, and etc. To clarify this feature, say for example, the user presses on the "View" button of the card for Harry Potter himself. The user would then be redirected to a page where the user will see Harry Potter's name as the title, along with Harry Potter' general information such as his Gender, Job, Hogwarts House, Wand Type, Patronus, Loyalties, and etc.


At any moment after the user has pressed the "I Solemly Swear That I Am Up To No Good" button on the homepage of the web application, the user will have access to the search bar, located in the top right on the navigation bar. The user should search for the name of the character that they would like to find, inputting their search query into the input box and then pressing the "Search" button. Once the "Search" button is pressed, the user will be redirected to a page similar to the Character Database page, except that it will only display (in the form of a grid of cards) the characters whose names, in some way, contain within them the search query of the user. Similar to the entire Character Database page described above, each card for each character will contain a photo of Hogwarts, in addition to the name and the job of the character. Each card will also have the "View" button, which redirects the user to another page with more information on the character whose card's button was clicked (as described in the paragraph above).


It should also be noted that the user can return to the homepage at any point by clicking on the "Hogwarts Database" link located in the navigation bar, specifically in the top left corner of the web application. Once the "Hogwarts Database" link is clicked, the user will be returned to the original homepage in which the image of the Maurauders' Map and the "I Solemly Swear That I Am Up To No Good" button are visible, and everything else is hidden (including the search bar and character database link in the navigation bar). To access all of the features of the web application once again, the user should press on the "I Solemly Swear That I Am Up To No Good" button again, which will then have the effects as described in the second paragraph above.


Link to Video Presentation: https://youtu.be/ub2C-lkxRUQ
